= Examples

This directory contains example files in several formats, each 
describing the same song.

---

= {ChordPro (+.cho+)}[http://Vromans.Org/johan/projects/Chordii/chordpro/]

ChordPro is *the* file format for leadsheets. It all started with 
a Unix utility called +chord+, which set the basis for many 
clones, derivatives, extensions and successors. Unfortunately, 
the format was never formally specified, and so each 
implementation interpreted it in its own way, added incompatible 
extensions and generally made a mess of the format that wasn't 
actually that good to begin with.

To see it in action, try:

	chordii -o message.ps message.cho

= {GuitarTeX (+.gtx+)}[http://GuitarTeX.SourceForge.Net/]

GuitarTeX is one of those programs that expand upon the original 
ChordPro format. It is a frontend to TeX, LaTeX, MusiXTeX and a 
couple of other TeX-y things. Its file format is a chimera of a 
greatly expanded ChordPro superset and LaTeX. The implementation 
is a very hacky Perl script that uses Regexps to convert the 
input into equally hacky LaTeX.

To see it in action, try:

	gtx2tex message.gtx

= {reStructuredText (+.rst+)}[http://DocUtils.SourceForge.Net/rst.html]

ReStructuredText is the lightweight markup of the Python-docutils 
project. It is intended to be a documentation language for Python 
sourcecode, and therefore not very friendly to being (ab)used as 
a leadsheet markup language. However, it actually works rather 
well. This is the format that I use to write my leadsheets in. 
(Until Akkordarbeit is finished, of course.) I use 
Python-docutils to convert it to HTML, then a Regexp to mark up 
the chord symbols with nice HTML and lastly a Ruby script using 
Hpricot to clean up the generated HTML.

To see it in action, try:

	rst2html -l de message.rst message.html

= {Akkordarbeit (+.akk+)}[https://JoergWMittag.GitHub.Com/akkordarbeit/]

This is the holy grail, of course. This file contains just a few 
ideas for some syntactic features of Akkordarbeit. It is meant 
purely as a basis for discussion.

To see it in action, try:

	akkordarbeit -f html -i message.akk -o message.html
